---
layout: post
title: New Romana v9.8 Release
categories:
- blog
permalink: /blog/v9-8-release/
---

The whole Romana team is happy to announce the immediate available of Romana v0.9.8.  This release is giant step forward toward Romana v1.0 that captures the tremendous operational experience we've gained over the past few months from users running Romana in their production environments.

Romana v0.9.8 includes dozens of new features and enhancements that increase performance and simplify operations. Among the most significant improvements in v0.9.8 are:

* *Pluggable back-end data store*:  Romana now supports a pluggable back end data store that supports both relational and key-value data models. Previously, mySQL was used to store Romana configuration state. This was fine for OpenStack deployments. However, for Kubernetes deployments a more cloud native approach is desirable. With Romana v0.9.8, etcd, Zookeeper or Consul can be used, with etcd as the default choice for Kubernetes deployments.

* *High availability*: Romana Network Policy and IPAM service failover is now supported. Using etcd as the back-end data store simplifies failover since standard master election lets the backup instance take over in the event of master failure.

* *New CNI and Agents implemented in Go*:. Earlier Romana releases included a Python agent and simple bash CNI plugin. With v0.9.8 both have been completely re-written in Go. This new software not only eliminates a number of installation dependencies, it is also both higher performing and more reliable. Better error checking and logging simplifies operations as well.

* *Network optimizations*: Numerous changes to the way Romana applies and updates network configuration and policy on servers were made as well. This results in faster pod deployment and policy updates

From an administrative perspective, many new enhancements simplify installation and ongoing operations:

* *Containerized installation*: The new release packages Romana as containers that are more easily installed via kubeadm or kops. The new release will now support kops' built in CNI networking.

* *Dynamic CIDR assignment*: Romana IPAM now tracks addresses and networks across a deployment and can now automatically assign/reclaim network CIDRs to hosts as they are added and dropped from a configuration.

* *Single tenant operation*: Multi-tenancy is built in to Romana and its addressing model lets simple layer 3 networks define and enforce tenant isolation.  However, many users deploy Romana in a single tenant environment and v0.9.8 allows for all address to be managed by a single tenant, increasing the total number of addresses available for use.

* *Romana Authentication and Authorization*: When Romana authorization is enabled, all requests to the policy server are authenticated.

* *Standardized logging*: Romana error messages and logs are now standardized to simplify troubleshooting and diagnostics.

These new features make Romana an excellent choice to automate your Kubernetes network provisioning and to apply network policy to secure your apps. 

If you would like to try it for yourself, simply follow the Kubernetes kops or kubeadm installation instructions.

Finally, the entire team would like to thank all the Romana users that helped us with this release. Their questions and feedback was critically important for us to better understand how Romana can help address the network and security concerns with cloud native deployments.
