---
layout: post
title: Romana v1.0 Now Available
categories:
- blog
permalink: /blog/release1-0/
---

The whole Romana team is happy to announce the immediate available of [Romana v1.0](https://github.com/romana/romana).  In addition to the new features included in the recent v0.9.8 release, Romana v1.0 captures the operation experience of production deployments that have improved quality, stability and performance of the final release.

In addition to the important new features introduced with v0.9.8, Romana v1.0 now includes:

* *High availability*: Service failover is now supported. Using etcd as the back-end data store simplifies failover since standard master election lets a backup instance take over in the event of master failure.

* *Single tenant operation*: Network multi-tenancy is [built in](http://www.romana.io/how/romana_details/#romana-tenant-isolation) to Romana and its addressing model lets simple layer 3 networks define and enforce tenant isolation.  However, many users deploy Romana in a single tenant environment and v1.0 allows for all addresses to be managed by a single tenant, increasing the total number of addresses available for pods and isolated segments.

* *Network optimizations*: Numerous changes to the way Romana applies and updates network configuration and policy on servers are included in v1.0. This results in faster pod deployment and policy updates.

From a management and administration perspective, Romana v1.0 includes enhancements to simplify installation and ongoing operations:

* *Improved containerized installation*: The new release packages Romana as containers that are more easily installed via [kubeadm](https://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/kubeadm/) or [kops](https://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/kops/). 

* *Dynamic CIDR assignment*: Romana IPAM now tracks addresses and networks across a deployment and can now automatically assign/reclaim network CIDRs to hosts as they are added and dropped from a configuration.

* *Romana Authentication and Authorization*: When Romana authorization is enabled, all requests to Romana service endpoints are authenticated.

These new features make Romana an excellent choice to automate your Kubernetes network provisioning and to apply network policy to secure your apps. 

If you would like to try it for yourself, simply follow the 
[kubeadm](https://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/kubeadm/) or [kops](https://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/kops/) 
installation instructions.

Finally, the entire team would like to thank all the Romana users that helped us with this release. Their questions and feedback was critically important for us to better understand how Romana should operate and how it could be improved to address the network and security concerns of their cloud native deployments.
