---
layout: post
title: Romana v2.0 Beta Available Now 
categories:
- blog
permalink: /blog/romana-v2-beta/
---

Today we are happy to release Romana v2.0 beta, which includes important architectural advances that increase deployment flexibility and simplify operations. A separate beta release and code branch are new for the project, but since Romana v2.0 is a major update and we are all anxious for users to try it out as soon as possible, it seemed like an obvious path forward.

Romana v2.0 includes new topology aware IPAM and network advertisement for deployment in routed networks. This beta release, however, is focused on the newest parts of Romana that enable new deployment options in EC2. These new VPC deployment options enable native VPC networking for large, multi-zone and HA clusters.  

### Topology Aware IPAM and Network Advertisement 

Fundamental to Romana is intelligent IP address management that lets real network CIDRs define isolation boundaries.  This has numerous advantages including eliminating overlays and using route aggregation to minimize network updates, which enables higher performance and simpler, more secure operations. 

However, Romana v1.x IPAM provided only very simple IP address allocation, which results in inefficient use of addresses. This is a problem in the datacenter where addresses may be scarce and complicates deployment across subnets. 

Romana v2.0 with Topology Aware IP Address Management (TA-IPAM) and network advertisement support solves both of these problems.

Topology aware IPAM lets operators capture network topology so that Kubernetes has the flexibility it needs to schedule pods anywhere on the network, even across different subnets. Real network CIDRs on hosts lets simple network advertisements automatically configure upstream network devices. Topology aware IPAM ensures that new endpoints are reachable without route updates. 

### Network advertisement

Without network advertisement, Romana v1.0 when deployed on routed networks was limited to the run as configured when first installed. Updating the cluster required manual network configuration. Network advisement allows routers to learn new routes for hands-off automated operation. Romana v2.0 supports both BGP and OSPF protocols for network advertisement.

### Network advertisement in EC2

For network advertisement in EC2 VPCs, Romana v2.0 will update the route table  directly via the API in a manner similar to kubnet's EC2 cloud provider function. However, unlike kubnet, since Romana will aggregate routes, when you want to build a large cluster you do not need to worry about running out of VPC routes. Romana v2.0 will configure Kubernetes nodes to forward traffic to other nodes, effectively turning them into routers.

Romana performs healthcheck on VPC routes and configures a failover route on instance failure. This now allows users to build HA clusters that use native VPC networking.

Together, these new features let users build HA clusters that support network policy, all with native VPC networking.

*Romana v2.0 available now*

Romana v2.0 beta is available today, [here](https://github.com/romana/romana) on GitHub.
 
